This a codebook for the NBA project.
This text file will explain what each script does, where the data is sourced from and an
explanation of each variable from the final 'AdvancedProcessed' data frame.

Scripts
There are two scripts which accompany this research project. One is the data scraper, which
scrapes advanced basketball data from specified players' pages once the correct players
have been indetified from the Basketball Reference directory page found at
https://www.basketball-reference.com/players/.

The other script is the data processing and analysis script. After loading the raw data,
it is processed to be used in a linear mixed model, including the removal of NA values and
filtering of player entries based on a number of criteria. The second half of the script
includes the data analysis used in the research project, including the fitting and analysis
of a linear mixed model and the creation of graphics to visualise analysis.

Data Source
The source of the data is from the Sports Reference site for NBA statistics, Basketball
Reference (https://www.basketball-reference.com/). The 'advanced' table was scraped from the site in accordance with the Sports Reference Data Use Policy (https://www.sports-reference.com/data_use.html). The data frame before the filtering process contained 7151 regular season and post-season observations from 557 players.

Variables
The following is an explanation of variables found from the processed 'AdvancedProcessed'
data frame:

Season
The season in which a given observation is from. The year given is the year the season started,
so for the targeted 2019/2020 season in which the NBA bubble took place, observations are
marked 2019. Numeric (Continuous)

Age
The age of a given player at the start of the season in which an observation took place. Numeric (Continuous)

Position
The position which a player played in the given season period. Contains 3 categories of player
positions: Guards, Small Forward, Center/Power Forward. This is based upon a traditional 
condensed classification of the 5 positions (Casals and Martinez, 2013) Factor (3 levels).

G
Number of games played by a player in a given season period. Numeric (Continuous).

MP
Number of minutes played by a player in a given season period. Numeric (Continuous).

PER
Player Efficiency Rating (PER) is an all-in-one statistic measuring player performance
developed by Hollinger (2007). This statistic is formulated by an equation which takes into account mainly offensive actions and some defensive actions to create a number which measures a 
players' performance. This statistic is standardised so that the league average is 15. Statistic can be negative. Numeric

LeaguePlayoff
A variable that tracks whether a given observation is from 'League' data or 'Playoff' data. Factor (2 levels)

Name
A factor which tracks which player the observation belongs to. Includes a players' full name
in the format: [FirstName LastName]. Factor (148 levels)

Exp
Player Experience, calculated using the difference of the current season and the first season a player played. 0 indicates a players' rookie season. Numeric (Discrete)

MPperG
Average minutes played per game in a given season period, i.e. If a player played 150 minutes
in a season and played 6 games in that season, their MPperG would be 25. Calculated from
Minutes Played/Games Played. Numeric (Continuous)

COVID
Indicates if the observation was played during the NBA bubble. A dummy coded binary variable,
1 = NBA bubble, 0 = regular games. Games are considered to be played in the NBA bubble if they happened in the 2019/2020 and are playoff games. Please note: very few seeding league games
were played in the NBA bubble, but are not considered as 'COVID' fixtures for the purposes
of the research project, due to the fact that Basketball Reference does not discriminate these 
league fixtures from the non-bubble league fixtures. Factor (2 levels)



Packages:
Please note, in order to run the two scripts produced for this research project, a variety of packages are required. Citations for these are included in the research project. These are:

'rvest'
'dplyr'
'tidyr'
'here'
'forcats'
'lmerTest'
'ggplot2'
'lme4'
'lmtest'
'car'
'effects'
'performance'
'lattice'

